Now that we've got some semblance of an idea between the difference of a load balancer and an ingress
controller, let's take a look at the actual implementation of this ingress controller and load balancer
stuff that we're going to use inside of our cluster.
So we are going to be making use of a project called Ingress Engine X.
This is a project or a open source library that's going to create a load balancer service inside of
our cluster, plus an ingress automatically.
Before we take a look at any documentation around Ingress Engine X, I want to give you a very quick
and extremely important note.
We are going to be using a project called Ingress Engine X.
There is another extremely similar project with an almost identical name, but it is not what we are
using.
These are two very different projects.
They are provided by different organizations.
The second one is called Kubernetes Ingress.
So whenever you start to look at documentation or blog posts or whatever else, make sure that whatever
you're reading is related to ingress, nginx and not Kubernetes Ingress.
As a matter of fact, if I open up a new tab right now and do a search for Kubernetes ingress.
And then scroll down a little bit, you're going to see that some of the top results here.
So here's some two GitHub repos right here.
The first one that I see is ingress nginx.
That is what we are using.
We are not making use of Kubernetes ingress, so they're right next to each other.
Really easy to click on one or the other.
Just make sure you're always looking at ingress nginx.
That's the long and short of it.
All right.
So with that in mind, let's take a look at some documentation around ingress nginx.
So I'm going to open up a new tab and do a search for ingress nginx.
And I should see hopefully as the first result or so.
The GitHub repo for ingress nginx.
Again make sure you're looking at ingress nginx.
I'm going to go to that GitHub repo.
And then right here at the very top in the description is a link to the official documentation.
I believe there's also one in the Readme down here as well.
Yeah.
We could take a look at say getting started and you'll see a page like this.
So make sure you come to deployment.
And there's going to be an installation guide on how to get started.
Now I got to be honest with you, my just very frank notes on ingress nginx.
The documentation page here is not the best in the world.
It turns out that once you start doing some more advanced stuff, there's just it's just a little bit
hard to interpret this documentation.
Sometimes I'm just going to leave it there.
But if you start to read this stuff and you're getting a little bit confused, you are not alone at
all.
So you can take a look at the installation guide.
You're going to see a couple notes on here.
These notes change all the time.
So if you see a different set of notes and I that is totally okay.
Whenever we get started with Ingress Engine X, there is going to be what is called a mandatory command
up here.
So if we want to use ingress nginx inside of our cluster, we have to run this mandatory command no
matter what.
After that, there are going to be a series of provider specific commands.
So if you are using Docker for Mac, for example, or Docker for windows, you will run this additional
command right here.
If you're using minikube, you'll run that command right there.
And there is a set of additional commands depending upon your provider on here as well.
Rather than just taking these commands and executing them inside of our terminal, I want to really
understand what these commands are doing.
So I'm going to copy one right here.
And I'm going to go over to my code editor really quickly.
Just open up an empty page and paste that command in.
So take a look at this command that they're asking us to run.
It is kubectl apply dash f and then we are providing a URL.
URL that you see right here is to a Yaml file.
So this entire installation command is very similar to the same commands we've already been running.
We're essentially just taking a config file and throwing it into our cluster.
The exact same thing you and I have been doing throughout this entire Kubernetes section.
I'm going to take this URL and open it up inside of my browser.
So you're going to see that when you get started with Kubernetes, there are going to be a lot of add
ons, other packages you want to use inside of your cluster, and a lot of them are going to be installed
or added in by doing the same kind of kubectl apply f and then some URL to a config file.
I highly recommend that before you just take that entire command and throw it into your terminal, I
really recommend you take a look at that config file and understand what you are getting.
So in this case, we can see what is going to happen if we run that command.
This is the config file.
These are the changes that will be implemented inside of our cluster.
You'll see that there are a couple of different config sections in here that look somewhat similar to
the ones that we've already been writing.
The big difference is that they are creating different kinds of objects than the ones we've been looking
at so far.
So this one creates something called a namespace.
We got a config map, a service account cluster role, a lot of different kinds of objects beyond what
we've looked at so far.
But most importantly, I'm going to scroll down a little bit.
Towards the bottom.
So scroll, scroll, scroll.
And down here you're going to see that there is a config section for a deployment.
Well we know what a deployment is.
A deployment is something that creates and manages a set of pods.
Take a look kind of closely at this thing, and you'll notice that it's creating something that is called
an ingress nginx ingress controller.
So this ingress controller thing right here is essentially what we were just discussing back inside
this diagram.
So it's this ingress controller that's going to have a set of routing rules inside of it.
And it's going to make sure that incoming traffic gets sent off to an appropriate pod.
That was the first config file that the installation guide was asking us to run.
That was the mandatory command.
I now want to take a look at the other config file that we're being asked to run, if we're using Docker
for Mac.
So I'm going to take just that config file URL right there and again paste it into my browser.
So this is what we get when we run the Docker for Mac or Docker for windows specific installation.
We get just this very simple config file right here.
And take a look at what it creates.
It makes a service of type load balancer.
So this is the other part of what we just saw inside this diagram.
This is the thing that's going to somehow provision an outside load balancer.
And it's going to somehow get traffic into our cluster specifically at that ingress controller thing.
So between these two different config files that we just looked at, we're essentially implementing
this diagram that you see right here.
Okay, so now that we've got a better idea of what these different installation commands are doing,
let's go ahead and run them.
So no matter what, you're going to make sure that you now run this mandatory command right here.
So we're going to copy that link.
Or command.
We'll then go back over to our terminal, paste it in and run it.
We'll then see a bunch of stuff being created.
Now for me, I see a lot of stuff being unchanged because I've already got nginx ingress controller
installed inside my cluster.
I'll then go back over and because I am using Docker for Mac, or if you are using Docker for windows,
you're still going to use the same command right here.
I'm going to copy that command.
And run that one as well.
And I see unchanged.
But you're probably going to see something that says service created or what have you.
And then of course, if you're using a minikube instead, you will follow these directions right here.
You do not have to do the four development.
That's just if you are developing Ingress Engine X.
So if you are on minikube you'll just do standard usage.
Okay, that is it for the initial setup.
Now we've added these things into our cluster, but we have not yet set up any routing rules or anything
like that around our ingress controller.
So we still have a little bit of work to do.
Let's take a pause right here.
In the next video, we'll start to understand how we can tell the ingress controller how to route traffic
off to our different set of pods.